>> Burke Holland: Let's move on to
something a little more complicated,
because often times, you're not running
a very simple program like this that's
just a single file that has no
dependencies and no user interface.
This is a rather contrived example,
although you can use this.
So what I'm gonna do here is I'm gonna
move on to our next project here.
And this project is interesting,
because we're using TypeScript.
So I'm going to open the index file
here and collapse the sidebar.
And because actually it's open it again,
because I've included a tsconfig here,
which instructs TypeScript on what to do,
I've given it just some
basic instructions.
Use the common JS module format,
preserve JSX, use Source Maps,
in line my Source Maps.
Because I've given it
some basic instructions,
VS code will now build this transcript for
me.
So I'm gonna go ahead and
let's delete this file.
I should learn the keyboard shortcut for
deleting files.
Somebody put that in the exercise,
submit a pull request.
So I've deleted all of the files here and
remember, TypeScript doesn't
run in the browser or Node.
All it does is transfile to JavaScript
to which we need so we need those files.
To get them back, what we can do is,
Cmd+Shift B opens our build process.
Because I've got the tsconfig,
the TypeScript
compiler automatically picks us up VS code
says, well okay, what do you wanna do?
Did you wanna just build it?
I can do that so let's build.
So it'll build it and
those files come back.
Even better, I can say I can do
Cmd+Shift+B and I can watch it.
And now, I've got a watch process
happening so anytime I make any changes
to these TypeScript files, they get
compiled over here into JavaScript files.
Now, while we're on
the subject of TypeScript,
I want to show you a little trick
here in TypeScript that you can use.
A lot of times, you have TypeScript
files and you have JavaScript files.
But you don't wanna see
the JavaScript files, right?
You just want to see the TypeScript files.
So what you can do here is,
let's see, we can add our settings.
Let's add some settings here.
And you'll see that when I do that,
it creates a settings.json file.
And what I'm gonna do here is I'm gonna
come down and just say files, exclude, and
it it kind of gives me a list of things
that it thinks I probably want to exclude.
We'll take these out and
we'll put in, let's do **/*.js and
then we can do, sorry,
we have to say, true.
And then let's duplicate that,
bring it down,
and let's say **/*.js.map, is true.
Save that, and if you watch over
to the side those files are gone.
Now they're not gone from the file system.
They're just gone from the editor.
And that just cleans up
your editor a whole lot so
you can see what you're
looking at a little better.
You could also use glob expressions up
here to do multiple things in one line so
you can do this.
I think it's **/* and then ***.
You know what it is, it's like this.
Watch this, like this or this.
>> Burke Holland: So any valid glob file,
glob expression will work here.
If you wanna look up globs,
you can just Google that and
try to figure out the Syntax.
But my point is you can create rather
complex glob expressions that exclude all
kinds of files.
All right, so let's go ahead and
keep in what we had before.
>> Burke Holland: Js and
then let's do one more for the other one.
Let's do **/*.js.map, and
that will keep all of our
JavaScript files out.
Help us to focus, remove this.
Go ahead and save that, okay.
So now we want to actually
debug this application here.
So to run this, what we actually need
to do is open up a terminal here.
So I'm just gonna run this from
the terminal so you can see how this runs.
This program right here is a CLI program,
so in other words,
it doesn't run in the browser.
It runs in Node, but
it is activated from the CLI.
So it's gonna prompt us for something.
We have to input a color then
it's gonna change the lamp color.
All of that happens in the terminal so
if we were to run this,
what we would say is,
we'd come down here to our terminal.
We have to make sure we're
in the right folder here.
So I'm gonna go up one and then move
into and actually, I'll show you this.
If you just add a new terminal instance,
it'll ask you which one of
these projects you wanna add?
Remember I said terminals
are specific to projects?
So we can just put one here, and
now we're in the right folder.
And now I can say here,
I could run this by saying node index.js.
Now, we're writing our file
in the TypeScript, but
we've to run it in the JavaScript, okay.
So I'm gonna hit Enter here and
it's gonna ask us to enter a color.
I'll put in green and
the lamp color has been changed to green.
Remember I told you that we can run
JavaScript files with no configuration at
all, right?
So we can do that here, so let's do that.
I'm going to press F5, okay, and
it's gonna run and
then it's gonna go away.
What happened, all right,
so here's the deal.
When you run applications
in VS code like I just did,
it runs them on an internal console.
So that console prompt that we need in
order to interact this application,
it's there, but you can't see it.
So what we need to do is instruct VS
code on where to put the output or
we need it to use the integrated terminal
instead of the internal terminal.
In order to do that, we are now
configuring the debug process so
we need to add what's called a launch
configuration or a launch config.
>> Burke Holland: What I'm gonna do is
I'm gonna come over here to our debug
panel and
I'm gonna open the drop down list here.
And you can see here I've got
several options for add config,
I'm gonna say add config here.
And it's gonna wanna know well,
what are you trying to debug?
We're debugging a node process so
we'll choose node, and
then it's going to create for
us a launch config in the project
to folder which it just did.
So if we come back to our explorer you
can see there's now, its collapse some of
this, make it a little easier and
see this is our launch config.
So let's look at this launch config.
Right here, you can see that the name of
it is launch program that type is node and
the request is launch.
We've two types of launch configs or
two types of requests, launch and attach.
You can attach a debugger
to a running process or
you can use the debugger to launch and
then it will attach itself.
You will almost always use launch,
it's much more common to use launch
than attach but you can use attach and
will look at that here a little bit,
it's called launch program.
Whatever we change this name to is
what will show up in the debugger.
Here's what I mean by that, right now,
if we go back to the right here
you see it says launch program.
If we change this to Launch CLI app,
it changes up here too.
So that's what the name
does in the launch config.
The next thing it wants to know is
what file is my entry point for
running this application.
So for us, it tries to guess for you,
which is why it took a little bit of time
for that launch config to be created.
Because VS code is looking at my projects
and it's trying to figure out okay,
based on the file structure,
I think this is what you want.
And then for our out files here,
it just these are just where my JavaScript
files live, which is my workspace folder.
These configurations are all
added by VS code automatically,
I didn't have to do anything to get that,
they're just there.
Now, in order for us to get access
to the terminal for the CLI
app to run in the right place, we need to
specify that we're going to come down.
In this case we're looking for
the console so
any console here, you can see we have
external, integrated and internal.
Right now we're internal so
I'm gonna change that to integrated
terminal here, and save that.
And then now we should be able to add
a breakpoint to the index.ts file,
not the JavaScript file,
to the index file, right here.
And then go ahead and
run this from the debugger.
So I'm gonna go ahead and launch it.
All right,
so in the case of this launch config,
we actually don't need the out files.
This is what I mean by configs
being a little bit hard to set up,
it's because you really do have to get
them just right, and if you don't,
the debugging just doesn't work.
And so I took out the out files, which
I'm assuming was providing a bad path
and let me go ahead and kill this
application so we don't see that anymore.
And the debugger should work now so
let's go back to the index file here.
I'm gonna put a break point and
then let's go ahead and launch it.
And now see its opening
the internal terminal or
the integrated terminal here rather,
and we can change the color, and
then it will break on the breakpoint
as you see right there.
And now we can do logpoints and
breakpoints and other types of things.
What's very interesting is that
we're debugging TypeScripts, but
we're running JavaScript.
So you can see how VS code makes it so
much easier to debug.
Otherwise you'd have to set
all this stuff up yourself,
you have to set up Source Maps,
that's not a lot of fun.
And so VS code does that for
you automatically, which is super nice.
So let's go ahead and
continue on through this.
Now another thing that you
can do is you can set the VS
code to auto attach its
debugger to your process.
So here's what I mean.
A lot of times, people are like,
cool story about the debugging, but
I don't start my apps with the debugger.
I start them from the terminal
with a start command or
some sort of specific command
that I'm running from MPM or
my package JSON and
I'd really like to keep it that way.
I don't wanna change and if that's
the case, what you can do is you can
have VS code auto attach to that
process whenever it fires up.
So let me show you how that works.
In this case,
let's say we were bent on running it like
this where we wanted to run it this way.
So if we do this, we get the exact
same prompt there it goes.
Now we want the debugger to attach
when we run this application so
what we can do is we can
toggle on auto attach, okay?
I'm gonna debug auto attach and
then what we have to do is we have
to inspect we're saying node and
then whenever you wanna use a debugger in
node, you have to pass the inspect flag.
Because there's a special debugging
protocol that it opens when you
do that on port 9229.
You don't need to know
any of that information,
just the fact that that's
the way that it goes.
So if we run this with node index.js,
nothing's going to happen.
What's another color?
I'm running out of colors and
nothing's gonna happen.
But if we run it with
node inspect index.js,
>> Burke Holland: Still nothing happens.
Let's change it again,
there we go.
I'll tell you what, let's do it on,
I think a better example,
this might be on this one here, so
I'm going to drop a breakpoint here and
let's run into a new terminal instance.
I'm going to do node inspect index.js and
we want to toggle on auto attach.
I don't know if I just toggled it on or
off, we're about to find out, there we go.
Now it's on, I just had to toggle off.
So now you can see that the debugger gets
hit automatically just by virtue of me
starting from the terminal.
So just know that if you wanna
start from the terminal you can and
if you wanna still use the debugger,
you can.
And you need to know about
the auto attach feature so
that you can auto attach the debugger
whenever you run with the --inspect flag.
And just remember, if you don't use the
inspect flag, nothing is going to happen,
because you are not in
a debugging protocol for Node.